{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
Management Commitment to Safety \
LA. \
Leadership Safety Values and Actions \
Leaders demonstrate a commitment to safety in their decisions and \
behaviors.  Executive and senior managers are the leading advocates of nuclear \
safety and demonstrate their commitment both in word and action.  The nuclear \
safety message is communicated frequently and consistently, occasionally as a \
stand-alone theme.  Leaders throughout the nuclear organization set an example \
for safety.  Corporate policies emphasize the overriding importance of nuclear \
safety. \
 \
Attributes \
 \
LA.1 Resources:  Leaders ensure that personnel, equipment, procedures, and \
other resources are available and adequate to support nuclear safety. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Managers ensure staffing levels are consistent with the demands \
related to maintaining safety and reliability. \
b. Managers ensure sufficient qualified personnel are available to \
maintain work hours within working hour guidelines during all \
modes of operation. \
c. Managers ensure facilities are available and are regularly \
maintained, including physical improvements, simulator fidelity, \
and emergency facilities. \
d. Leaders ensure tools, equipment, procedures, and other resource \
materials are available to support successful work performance, \
including risk management tools and emergency equipment. \
e. Executives and senior managers ensure sufficient corporate \
resources are allocated to the nuclear organization for short- and \
long-term safe and reliable operation. \
f. Executives and senior managers ensure a rigorous evaluation of the \
nuclear safety implications of deferred work. \
 \
LA.2 Field Presence:  Leaders are commonly seen in working areas of the \
plant observing, coaching, and reinforcing standards and expectations.  \
Deviations from standards and expectations are corrected promptly. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Senior managers ensure supervisory and management oversight of \
work activities, including contractors and supplemental personnel, \
such that nuclear safety is supported. \
15 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
b. Leaders from all levels in the organization are involved in \
overseeing work activities. \
c. Managers and supervisors practice visible leadership in the field \
and during safety-significant evolutions by \'93placing eyes on the \
problem,\'94 coaching, mentoring, reinforcing standards, and \
reinforcing positive decision-making practices and behaviors. \
d. Managers and supervisors discuss their observations in detail with \
the group they observed and provide useful feedback about how to \
improve individual performance.  \
e. Managers encourage informal leaders to model safe behaviors and \
high standards of accountability. \
 \
LA.3 Incentives, Sanctions, and Rewards:  Leaders ensure incentives, \
sanctions, and rewards are aligned with nuclear safety policies and \
reinforce behaviors and outcomes that reflect safety as the overriding \
priority. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Managers ensure disciplinary actions are appropriate, consistent, \
and support both nuclear safety and a safety-conscious work \
environment.  \
b. Managers reward individuals who identify and raise issues that \
affect nuclear safety. \
c. Leaders foster an environment that promotes accountability and \
hold individuals accountable for their actions.  \
d. Managers consider the potential chilling effects of disciplinary \
actions and other potentially adverse personnel actions and take \
compensatory actions when appropriate. \
e. Leaders publicly praise behaviors that reflect a positive safety \
culture. \
 \
LA.4 Strategic Commitment to Safety:  Leaders ensure plant priorities are \
aligned to reflect nuclear safety as the overriding priority. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Executives and senior managers reinforce nuclear safety as the \
overriding priority. \
b. Managers develop and implement cost and schedule goals in a \
manner that reinforces the importance of nuclear safety. \
16 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
c. Managers ensure production requirements are established, \
communicated, and put into practice in a manner that reinforces \
nuclear safety. \
d. Executives and senior managers use information from independent \
oversight organizations to establish priorities that align with \
nuclear safety. \
e. Executives and senior managers establish strategic and business \
plans that reflect the importance of nuclear safety over production. \
f. Executives and senior managers ensure corporate priorities are \
aligned with nuclear safety. \
 \
LA.5 Change Management:  Leaders use a systematic process for evaluating \
and implementing change so that nuclear safety remains the overriding \
priority. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. When making decisions related to major changes, managers use a \
systematic process for planning, coordinating, and evaluating the \
safety impacts and potential negative effects on the willingness of \
individuals to raise safety concerns.  This includes decisions \
concerning changes to organizational structure and functions, \
leadership, policies, programs, procedures, and resources.  \
b. Executives and senior managers ensure nuclear safety is \
maintained when planning, communicating, and executing major \
changes. \
c. Managers maintain a clear focus on nuclear safety when \
implementing the change management process, to avoid significant \
unintended consequences. \
d. Managers ensure that individuals understand the importance of, \
and their role in, the change management process. \
e. Managers anticipate, manage, and communicate the effects of \
impending changes. \
f. Managers and supervisors actively monitor and address potential \
distractions from nuclear safety during periods of change. \
 \
LA.6 Roles, Responsibilities, and Authorities:  Leaders clearly define roles, \
responsibilities, and authorities to ensure nuclear safety.   \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Leaders ensure roles, responsibilities, and authorities are clearly \
defined, understood, and documented. \
17 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
b. Managers appropriately delegate responsibility and authority to \
promote ownership and accountability. \
c. Executives and senior managers ensure both corporate managers \
who support the nuclear organization and managers at the station \
understand their respective roles and responsibilities. \
d. Recommendations and feedback from corporate governance, \
review boards, and independent oversight organizations do not \
override senior managers\'92 ultimate responsibility for decisions that \
affect nuclear safety. \
 \
LA.7 Constant Examination:  Leaders ensure that nuclear safety is \
constantly scrutinized through a variety of monitoring techniques, \
including assessments of nuclear safety culture. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Executives and senior managers ensure that board members and \
members of independent oversight organizations meet with leaders \
and individual contributors in their work environments to develop \
an understanding of the status of the organization\'92s safety culture. \
b. Executives and senior managers obtain outside perspectives of \
nuclear safety through the selection of qualified, critical \
independent safety review board members with diverse \
backgrounds and perspectives. \
c. Executives and senior managers use a variety of monitoring \
tools\'97including employee surveys, independent and self-\
assessments, external safety review board member feedback, and \
employee concern investigations\'97to regularly monitor station \
nuclear safety culture. \
d. Leaders support and participate in candid assessments of \
workplace attitudes and nuclear safety culture and act on issues \
that affect trust in management or detract from a positive nuclear \
safety culture. \
 \
LA.8 Leader Behaviors:  Leaders exhibit behaviors that set the standard for \
safety.  \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Leaders \'93walk the talk,\'94 modeling the correct behaviors, especially \
when resolving apparent conflicts between nuclear safety and \
production. \
b. Leaders act promptly when a nuclear safety issue is raised to \
ensure it is understood and appropriately addressed. \
18 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
c. Leaders maintain high standards of personal conduct that promote \
all aspects of a positive nuclear safety culture. \
d. Leaders demonstrate interest in plant operations and actively seek \
out the opinions and concerns of workers at all levels.  \
e. Leaders encourage personnel to challenge unsafe behavior and \
unsafe conditions, and they support personnel who stop plant \
activities for safety reasons. \
f. Leaders motivate others to practice positive nuclear safety culture \
behaviors. }