{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0  \
PI.  \
Problem Identification and Resolution \
 \
Issues potentially impacting safety are promptly identified, fully evaluated, \
and promptly addressed and corrected commensurate with their \
significance.  Identification and resolution of a broad spectrum of problems, \
including organizational issues, are used to strengthen safety and improve \
performance.   \
 \
Attributes:   \
 \
PI.1 \
Identification:  The organization implements a corrective action \
program with a low threshold for identifying issues.  Individuals \
identify issues completely, accurately, and in a timely manner in \
accordance with the program. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Individuals recognize deviations from standards.  \
b. Individuals understand how to enter issues into the corrective \
action program. \
c. Individuals ensure that issues, problems, degraded conditions, and \
near misses are promptly reported and documented in the \
corrective action program at a low threshold.  \
d. Individuals describe the issues entered in the corrective action \
program in sufficient detail to ensure they can be appropriately \
prioritized, trended, and assigned for resolution. \
 \
PI.2 \
Evaluation:  The organization thoroughly evaluates problems to ensure \
that resolutions address causes and extents of conditions \
commensurate with their safety significance.  \
 \
25 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Issues are properly classified, prioritized, and evaluated according \
to their safety significance. \
b. Operability and reportability determinations are developed when \
appropriate. \
c. Apparent and root cause investigations identify primary and \
contributing causal factors as required. \
d. Extent-of-condition and extent-of-cause evaluations are completed \
in a timely manner, commensurate with the safety significance of \
the issue. \
e. Issues are investigated thoroughly according to their safety \
significance. \
f. Root cause analyses are rigorously applied to identify and correct \
the fundamental cause of significant issues. \
g. The underlying organizational and safety culture contributors to \
issues are evaluated thoroughly and are given the necessary time \
and resources to be clearly understood. \
h. Cause analyses identify and understand the bases for decisions that \
contributed to issues. \
i. Managers conduct effectiveness reviews of significant corrective \
actions to ensure that the resolution addressed the causes \
effectively. \
 \
PI.3 \
Resolution:  The organization takes effective corrective actions to \
address issues in a timely manner commensurate with their safety \
significance. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Corrective actions are completed in a timely manner. \
b. Deferrals of corrective actions are minimized.  When required, due \
dates are extended using an established process that appropriately \
considers safety significance. \
c. Appropriate interim corrective actions are taken to mitigate issues \
while more fundamental causes are being assessed. \
d. Corrective actions resolve and correct the identified issues, \
including causes and extents of conditions. \
e. Corrective actions prevent the recurrence of significant conditions \
adverse to quality. \
26 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
f. Trends in safety performance indicators are acted on to resolve \
problems early. \
 \
PI.4 \
Trending:  The organization periodically analyzes information from \
the corrective action program and other assessments in the aggregate \
to identify programmatic and common cause issues.  \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. The organization develops indicators that monitor both equipment \
and organizational performance, including safety culture. \
b. Managers use indicators that provide an accurate representation of \
performance and early indications of declining trends.  \
c. Managers routinely challenge the organization\'92s understanding of \
declining trends. \
d. Organizational and departmental trend reviews are completed in a \
timely manner in accordance with program expectations. }