{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0  \
RC. \
Environment for Raising Concerns \
 \
A safety-conscious work environment (SCWE) is maintained where \
personnel feel free to raise safety concerns without fear of retaliation, \
intimidation, harassment, or discrimination.  The station creates, maintains, \
and evaluates policies and processes that allow personnel to raise concerns freely. \
 \
Attributes:   \
 \
RC.1 SCWE Policy:  The organization effectively implements a policy that \
supports individuals\'92 rights and responsibilities to raise safety \
concerns and does not tolerate harassment, intimidation, retaliation, or \
discrimination for doing so.   \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Individuals feel free to raise nuclear safety concerns without fear \
of retribution, with confidence that their concerns will be \
addressed. \
b. Executives and senior managers set and reinforce expectations for \
establishing and maintaining a safety-conscious work environment. \
c. Policies and procedures reinforce that individuals have the right \
and responsibility to raise nuclear safety concerns.  \
d. Policies and procedures define the responsibilities of leaders to \
create an environment in which individuals feel free to raise safety \
concerns. \
27 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
e. Policies and procedures establish the expectation that leaders will \
respond in a respectful manner and provide timely feedback to the \
individual raising the concern. \
f. Leaders are trained to take ownership when receiving and \
responding to concerns, recognizing confidentiality if appropriate, \
and ensuring they are adequately addressed in a timely manner. \
g. Individuals are trained that behaviors or actions that could prevent \
concerns from being raised, including harassment, intimidation, \
retaliation, or discrimination, will not be tolerated and are \
violations of law and policy. \
h. All claims of retaliation are investigated and any necessary \
corrective actions are taken in a timely manner, including actions \
to mitigate any potential chilling effect. \
 \
RC.2 Alternate Process for Raising Concerns:  The organization effectively \
implements a process for raising and resolving concerns that is \
independent of line management influence.  Safety issues may be \
raised in confidence and are resolved in a timely and effective manner.   \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Executives establish, support, and promote the use of alternative \
processes for raising concerns and ensure corrective actions are \
taken. \
b. Leaders understand their role in supporting alternate processes for \
raising concerns. \
c. Processes for raising concerns or resolving differing professional \
opinions that are alternatives to the corrective action program and \
operate outside the influence of the management chain are \
communicated and accessible to individuals. \
d. Alternative processes are independent, include an option to raise \
concerns confidentially, and ensure these concerns are \
appropriately resolved in a timely manner.   \
e. Individuals receive feedback in a timely manner. \
f. Individuals have confidence that issues raised will be appropriately \
resolved. \
g. Individuals assigned to respond to concerns have the appropriate \
competencies. }