{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0  \
Management Systems  \
 \
CL. \
Continuous Learning \
 \
Opportunities to learn about ways to ensure safety are sought out and \
implemented.  Operating experience is highly valued, and the capacity to learn \
from experience is well developed.  Training, self-assessments, and benchmarking \
are used to stimulate learning and improve performance.  Nuclear safety is kept \
under constant scrutiny through a variety of monitoring techniques, some of \
which provide an independent \'93fresh look.\'94 \
 \
Attributes:   \
 \
CL.1 Operating Experience:  The organization systematically and \
effectively collects, evaluates, and implements relevant internal and \
external operating experience in a timely manner. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. A process is in place to ensure a thorough review of operating \
experience provided by internal and external sources. \
b. Operating experience is implemented and institutionalized \
effectively through changes to station processes, procedures, \
equipment, and training programs. \
c. Operating experience is used to understand equipment, operational, \
and industry challenges and to adopt new ideas to improve \
performance.  \
d. Operating experience is used to support daily work functions, with \
emphasis on the possibility that \'93it could happen here.\'94 \
e. Station operating experience is shared in a timely manner. \
 \
CL.2 Self-Assessment:  The organization routinely conducts self-critical and \
objective assessments of its programs and practices. \
 \
 Behavior Examples:  \
 \
a. Independent and self- assessments, including nuclear safety culture \
assessments, are thorough and effective and are used as a basis for \
improvements. \
b. The organization values the insights and perspectives assessments \
provide. \
c. Self-assessments are performed on a variety of topics, including \
the self-assessment process itself. \
23 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
d. Self-assessments are performed at a regular frequency and provide \
objective, comprehensive, and self-critical information that drive \
corrective actions. \
e. Targeted self-assessments are performed when a more thorough \
understanding of an issue is required. \
f. A balanced approach of self-assessments and independent \
oversight is used and periodically adjusted based on changing \
needs. \
g. Self-assessment teams include individual contributors and leaders \
from within the organization and from external organizations when \
appropriate. \
 \
CL.3 Benchmarking:  The organization learns from other organizations to \
continuously improve knowledge, skills, and safety performance. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. The organization uses benchmarking as an avenue for acquiring \
innovative ideas to improve nuclear safety.     \
b. The organization participates in benchmarking activities with other \
nuclear and nonnuclear facilities. \
c. The organization seeks out best practices by using benchmarking \
to understand how others perform the same functions.  \
d. The organization uses benchmarking to compare station standards \
to the industry and to make adjustments to improve performance. \
e. Individual contributors are actively involved in benchmarking. \
 \
CL.4 Training:  The organization provides training and ensures knowledge \
transfer to maintain a knowledgeable, technically competent workforce \
and instill nuclear safety values.   \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. The organization fosters an environment in which individuals \
value and seek continuous learning opportunities. \
b. Individuals, including supplemental workers, are adequately \
trained to ensure technical competency and an understanding of \
standards and work requirements. \
c. Individuals master reactor and power plant fundamentals to \
establish a solid foundation for sound decisions and behaviors. \
d. The organization develops and effectively implements knowledge \
transfer and knowledge retention strategies. \
24 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
e. Knowledge transfer and knowledge retention strategies are applied \
to capture the knowledge and skill of experienced individuals to \
advance the knowledge and skill of less experienced individuals. \
f. Leadership and management skills are systematically developed. \
g. Training is developed and continuously improved using input and \
feedback from individual contributors and subject-matter experts. \
h. Executives obtain the training necessary to understand basic plant \
operation and the relationships between major functions and \
organizations. }