{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 CO. \
Effective Safety Communication \
 \
Communications maintain a focus on safety.  Safety communication is broad \
and includes plant-level communication, job-related communication, worker-level \
communication, equipment labeling, operating experience, and documentation.  \
Leaders use formal and informal communication to convey the importance of \
safety.  The flow of information up the organization is considered to be as \
important as the flow of information down the organization. \
 \
Attributes:   \
 \
CO.1 Work Process Communications:  Individuals incorporate safety \
communications in work activities.   \
12 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Communications within work groups are timely, frequent, and \
accurate. \
b. Work groups and supervisors communicate work statuses with \
other work groups and supervisors during the performance of their \
work activities. \
c. Individuals communicate with each other such that everyone has \
the information necessary to accomplish work activities safely and \
effectively. \
d. Communications during shift turnovers and prejob briefings \
provide information necessary to support nuclear safety. \
e. Work groups integrate nuclear safety messages into daily activities \
and meetings. \
 \
CO.2 Bases for Decisions:  Leaders ensure that the bases for operational and \
organizational decisions are communicated in a timely manner. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Leaders promptly communicate expected outcomes, potential \
problems, planned contingencies, and abort criteria for important \
operational decisions.  \
b. Leaders share information on a wide range of issues with \
individuals and periodically verify their understanding of the \
information. \
c. Leaders take steps to avoid unintended or conflicting messages that \
may be conveyed by operational decisions. \
d. Leaders encourage individuals to ask questions if they do not \
understand the basis of an operational or management decision. \
e. Executives and senior managers communicate the reasons for \
resource allocation decisions, including the nuclear safety \
implications of those decisions. \
 \
CO.3 Free Flow of Information:  Individuals communicate openly and \
candidly, both up, down, and across the organization and with \
oversight, audit, and regulatory organizations.  \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Leaders encourage the free flow of information. \
b. Individuals share information openly and candidly. \
13 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
c. Leaders respond to individuals in an open, honest, and \
nondefensive manner. \
d. Individuals provide complete, accurate, and forthright information \
to oversight, audit, and regulatory organizations. \
e. Leaders actively solicit feedback, listen to concerns, and \
communicate openly with all individuals. \
f. Leaders candidly communicate the results of monitoring and \
assessments throughout the organization and with independent \
oversight organizations. \
 \
CO.4 Expectations:  Leaders frequently communicate and reinforce the \
expectation that nuclear safety is the organization\'92s overriding priority. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Executives and senior managers communicate expectations \
regarding nuclear safety so that individuals understand that safety \
is the highest priority. \
b. Executives and senior managers implement a strategy of frequent \
communication using a variety of tools to reinforce that nuclear \
safety is the overriding priority.  \
c. Executives and senior managers reinforce the importance of \
nuclear safety by clearly communicating its relationship to \
strategic issues, including budget, workforce planning, equipment \
reliability, and business plans.  \
d. Leaders communicate desired nuclear safety behaviors to \
individuals, providing examples of how behaviors positively or \
negatively affect nuclear safety.  \
e. Leaders routinely verify that communications on the importance of \
nuclear safety have been heard and understood. \
f. Leaders ensure supplemental personnel understand expected \
behaviors and actions necessary to maintain nuclear safety. }