{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 DM. \
Decision-Making \
 \
Decisions that support or affect nuclear safety are systematic, rigorous, and \
thorough.  Operators are vested with the authority and understand the \
expectation, when faced with unexpected or uncertain conditions, to place the \
plant in a safe condition.  Senior leaders support and reinforce conservative \
decisions. \
 \
Attributes: \
 \
DM.1 Consistent Process:  Individuals use a consistent, systematic approach \
to make decisions.  Risk insights are incorporated as appropriate.   \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. The organization establishes a well-defined decision-making \
process, with variations allowed for the complexity of the issue \
being decided. \
b. Individuals demonstrate an understanding of the decision-making \
process and use it consistently.  \
c. Leaders seek inputs from different work groups or organizations as \
appropriate when making safety- or risk-significant decisions. \
d. When previous operational decisions are called into question by \
new facts, leaders reevaluate these decisions to ensure they remain \
appropriate.  \
e. The organization uses the results of effectiveness reviews to \
improve future decisions. \
 \
DM.2 Conservative Bias:  Individuals use decision-making practices that \
emphasize prudent choices over those that are simply allowable.  A \
proposed action is determined to be safe in order to proceed, rather \
than unsafe in order to stop.   \
 \
19 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Managers ensure that conservative assumptions are used when \
determining whether emergent or unscheduled work can be \
conducted safely. \
b. Leaders take a conservative approach to decision-making, \
particularly when information is incomplete or conditions are \
unusual. \
c. Leaders consider long-term consequences when determining how \
to resolve emergent concerns. \
d. Managers take timely action to address degraded conditions \
commensurate with their safety significance. \
e. Executives and senior managers reinforce the expectation that the \
reactor will be shut down when procedurally required, when the \
margin for safe operation has degraded unacceptably, or when the \
condition of the reactor is uncertain.  Managers implement this \
expectation. \
f. Individuals do not rationalize assumptions for the sake of \
completing a task. \
 \
DM.3 Accountability for Decisions:  Single-point accountability is \
maintained for nuclear safety decisions. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. The on-shift licensed operators have the authority and \
responsibility to place the plant in a safe condition when faced \
with unexpected or uncertain conditions. \
b. A designated, on-shift licensed senior reactor operator has the \
authority and responsibility to determine equipment operability. \
c. Managers maintain single-point accountability for important safety \
decisions. \
d. The organization ensures that important nuclear safety decisions \
are made by the correct person at the lowest appropriate level. \
}