{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0  \
QA. \
Questioning Attitude \
 \
Individuals avoid complacency and continuously challenge existing \
conditions and activities in order to identify discrepancies that might result \
in error or inappropriate action.  All employees are watchful for assumptions, \
anomalies, values, conditions, or activities that can have an undesirable effect on \
plant safety. \
 \
Attributes:   \
 \
QA.1 Nuclear is Recognized as Special and Unique:  Individuals understand \
that complex technologies can fail in unpredictable ways. \
 \
Behavior Examples:  \
 \
a. The organization ensures that activities that could affect reactivity \
are conducted with particular care, caution, and oversight. \
b. Individuals recognize the special characteristics and unique \
hazards of nuclear technology, including radioactive byproducts, \
concentration of energy in the core, and decay heat. \
10 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
c. Individuals recognize the particular importance of features \
designed to maintain critical safety functions, such as core and \
spent fuel cooling. \
d. Executives and senior managers ask probing questions to \
understand the implications and consequences of anomalies in \
plant conditions.  \
e. Executives and senior managers challenge managers to ensure \
degraded conditions are fully understood and appropriately \
resolved, especially those involving equipment important to \
nuclear safety. \
 \
QA.2 Challenge the Unknown:  Individuals stop when faced with uncertain \
conditions.  Risks are evaluated and managed before proceeding.   \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Leaders reinforce expectations that individuals take the time to do \
the job right the first time, seek guidance when unsure, and stop if \
an unexpected condition or equipment response is encountered. \
b. Individuals maintain a questioning attitude during prejob briefings \
and job-site reviews1 to identify and resolve unexpected \
conditions. \
c. Individuals challenge unanticipated test results rather than \
rationalizing them.  For example, abnormal indications are not \
automatically attributed to indication problems but are thoroughly \
investigated before activities are allowed to continue. \
d. Individuals communicate unexpected plant responses and \
conditions to the control room. \
e. Individuals stop work activities when confronted with an \
unexpected condition, communicate with supervisors, and resolve \
the condition prior to continuing work activities.  When \
appropriate, individuals consult system and equipment experts.   \
f. If a procedure or work document is unclear or cannot be performed \
as written, individuals stop work until the issue is resolved. \
 \
QA.3  Challenge Assumptions:  Individuals challenge assumptions and offer \
opposing views when they think something is not correct. \
 \
1 Job-site review:  An action performed by an individual or group to improve situational awareness at the \
job site; also known as two-minute drill, timeout, two-minute rule, take-a-minute, and two-minute timeout. \
11 \
                                                 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Leaders solicit challenges to assumptions when evaluating nuclear \
safety issues. \
b. Individual contributors ask questions to fully understand the bases \
of operational and management decisions that appear to be \
contrary to nuclear safety. \
c. Managers question assumptions, decisions, and justifications that \
do not appear to consider impacts to nuclear safety sufficiently. \
 \
QA.4 Avoid Complacency:  Individuals recognize and plan for the \
possibility of mistakes, latent problems, and inherent risk, even while \
expecting successful outcomes. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. The organization is aware that latent conditions can exist, \
addresses them as they are discovered, and considers the extents of \
the conditions and their causes.  \
b. Prior to authorizing work, individuals verify procedure \
prerequisites are met rather than assuming they are met based on \
general plant conditions. \
c. Individual contributors perform a thorough review of the work site \
and the planned activity every time work is performed rather than \
relying on past successes and assumed conditions. \
d. Leaders ensure specific contingency actions are discussed and \
understood during job planning and prejob briefings.   \
e. Individuals consider potential undesired consequences of their \
actions prior to performing work and implement appropriate error \
reduction tools. }