{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0  \
WE. \
Respectful Work Environment \
 \
Trust and respect permeate the organization.  A high level of trust is \
established in the organization, fostered, in part, through timely and accurate \
communication.  Differing professional opinions are encouraged, discussed, and \
resolved in a timely manner.  Employees are informed of steps taken in response \
to their concerns. \
 \
20 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
Attributes: \
 \
WE.1 Respect is Evident:  Everyone is treated with dignity and respect.  \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. The organization regards individuals and their professional \
capabilities and experiences as its most valuable asset. \
b. Individuals at all levels of the organization treat each other with \
dignity and respect. \
c. Individuals treat each other with respect within and between work \
groups. \
d. Individuals do not demonstrate or tolerate bullying or humiliating \
behaviors. \
e. Leaders monitor for behaviors that can have a negative impact on \
the work environment and address them promptly. \
f. Leaders ensure policies and expectations are enforced fairly and \
consistently for individuals at all levels of the organization. \
g. Individuals treat decision-makers with respect, even when they \
disagree with a decision. \
h. Leaders ensure facilities are conducive to a productive work \
environment and housekeeping is maintained. \
 \
WE.2 Opinions are Valued:  Individuals are encouraged to voice concerns, \
provide suggestions, and raise questions.  Differing opinions are \
respected. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. The organization encourages individuals to offer ideas, concerns, \
suggestions, differing opinions, and questions to help identify and \
solve problems. \
b. Leaders are receptive to ideas, concerns, suggestions, differing \
opinions, and questions. \
c. The organization promotes robust discussions, recognizing that \
differing opinions are a natural result of differences in expertise \
and experience. \
d. Individuals value the insights and perspectives provided by quality \
assurance, the employee concerns program, and independent \
oversight organization personnel. \
 \
21 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
WE.3 High Level of Trust:  Trust is fostered among individuals and work \
groups throughout the organization. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Leaders promote collaboration among work groups. \
b. Leaders respond to questions and concerns in an open and honest \
manner. \
c. Leaders, sensitive to the negative impact of a lack of information, \
share important information in an open, honest, and timely manner \
such that trust is maintained. \
d. Leaders ensure that plant status and important work milestones are \
communicated throughout the organization. \
e. Leaders acknowledge positive performance and address negative \
performance promptly and directly with the individual involved.  \
Confidentiality is maintained as appropriate. \
f. Leaders welcome performance feedback from throughout the \
organization and modify their behavior when appropriate. \
 \
WE.4 Conflict Resolution:  Fair and objective methods are used to resolve \
conflicts.   \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. The organization implements processes to ensure fair and objective \
resolution of conflicts and differing views. \
b. Leaders ensure conflicts are resolved in a balanced, equitable, and \
consistent manner, even when outside of defined processes.  \
c. Individuals have confidence that conflicts will be resolved \
respectfully and professionally. }