{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
WP. \
Work Processes \
 \
The process of planning and controlling work activities is implemented so \
that safety is maintained.  Work management is a deliberate process in which \
work is identified, selected, planned, scheduled, executed, closed, and critiqued.  \
The entire organization is involved in and fully supports the process. \
 \
Attributes:   \
 \
WP.1 Work Management:  The organization implements a process of \
planning, controlling, and executing work activities such that nuclear \
safety is the overriding priority.  The work process includes the \
identification and management of risk commensurate to the work. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Work is effectively planned and executed by incorporating risk \
insights, job-site conditions, and the need for coordination with \
different groups or job activities. \
b. The work process appropriately prioritizes work and incorporates \
contingency plans, compensatory actions, and abort criteria as \
needed. \
c. Leaders consider the impact of changes to the work scope and the \
need to keep personnel apprised of the work status. \
d. The work process ensures individuals are aware of the plant status, \
the nuclear safety risks associated with work in the field, and other \
parallel station activities. \
e. Insights from probabilistic risk assessments are considered in daily \
work activities and change processes. \
f. Work activities are coordinated to address conflicting or changing \
priorities across the whole spectrum of activities contributing to \
nuclear safety.  \
g. The work process limits temporary modifications. \
 \
WP.2 Design Margins:  The organization operates and maintains equipment \
within design margins.  Margins are carefully guarded and changed \
only through a systematic and rigorous process.  Special attention is \
placed on maintaining fission product barriers, defense-in-depth, and \
safety-related equipment. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. The work process supports nuclear safety and the maintenance of \
design margins by minimizing long-standing equipment issues, \
29 \
\
INPO 12-012, Revision 1 \
preventive maintenance deferrals, and maintenance and \
engineering backlogs. \
b. The work process ensures focus on maintaining fission product \
barriers, defense-in-depth, and safety-related equipment. \
c. Design and operating margins are carefully guarded and changed \
only with great thought and care.  \
d. Safety-related equipment is operated and maintained well within \
design requirements. \
 \
WP.3 Documentation:  The organization creates and maintains complete, \
accurate, and up-to-date documentation. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Plant activities are governed by comprehensive, high-quality \
programs, processes, and procedures. \
b. Design documentation, procedures, and work packages are \
complete, thorough, accurate, and current. \
c. Components are labeled clearly, consistently, and accurately.  \
d. The backlog of document changes is understood, prioritized, and \
actively managed to ensure quality. \
 \
WP.4 Procedure Adherence:  Individuals follow processes, procedures, and \
work instructions. \
 \
Behavior Examples: \
 \
a. Individuals follow procedures. \
b. Individuals understand and use human error reduction techniques. \
c. Individuals review procedures and instructions prior to work to \
validate that they are appropriate for the scope of work and that \
required changes are completed prior to implementation. \
d. Individuals manipulate plant equipment only when appropriately \
authorized and directed by approved plant procedures or work \
instructions. \
e. Individuals ensure the statuses of work activities are properly \
documented. }